This is NetProfile, a Mandriva tool to support different network profiles.

Introduction
------------

The idea of this application is quite simple. For different network
environments one requires different network settings. For example, you may
use a fixed IP at home, with firewall disabled, and no proxy. At work, you
must use a corporate proxy and a DHCP address for your ethernet connection.
And while at a LAN house or Internet cafe, a full-featured firewall must be
used, ethernet connection disabled and a tor proxy (for example) to be in
effect.

How to achieve this in a working system? Usually you must manually
reconfigure the network settings, edit configuration files for network,
firewall and proxy, and so on. And this is where netprofile comes into
action.

The netprofile uses the concept of network profiles to represent different
network environments. You start with the 'default' profile, and you may use
your system normally. If you want to setup a different network environment,
you may 'switch' to a different profile (a new profile will be created if
necessary). Your current settings will be saved to your previous profile,
and all changes to system configuration will now apply to your new profile.


Sample use case
---------------

To illustrate netprofile functionality, consider this example:

 - You configure your system to use fixed IP address and a specific firewall
   configuration.
 - You go to work, where different network environment takes place. You
   switch to the work profile ('netprofile switch work', or using net_applet
   gui), and if it is the first time you use this profile, it is created
   with base on your current settings.
 - You configure your network card to use DHCP, configure your
   corporate-specific proxy and firewall settings, and continue using your
   machine normally.
 - When you come back home, you switch the profile back to default, and your
   previous settings are restored.

Boot-time profile selection
---------------------------

You may also specify what network profile to use on boot, by passing the
'PROFILE=<profile name>' option to the boot loader. If you have multiple
profiles, and no boot parameter was specified, a menu dialog will appear on
boot asking you to select the profile to use.

Netprofile modules
------------------

Netprofile supports different modules, which provide most of its
configuration. In its current version, the following modules are provided:
 - network
   - This module is responsible for saving/restoring the network settings,
     such as the IP address, routes, gateways and connection-specific
     parameters (wifi parameters and password, dialup connections, and so
     on)
 - firewall
   - This module is responsible for firewall configuration (namely iptables
     and shorewall firewalls)
 - firewall6
   - This module is responsible for firewall configuration for IPv6 networks
 - proxy
   - This module is responsible for system-wide proxy configurations
 - urpmi
   - This module is responsible for saving/restoring system urpmi
     configuration.

For each module you can define the following variables:
 - FILES
   - specifies the list of files to be saved/restored when switching to a
     different profile
 - SERVICES
   - lists the services that must be restarted when switching to a different
     profile
 - save function
   - a specific function that must be executed when the profile is saved
     before switching to a new one. You can put any code there (for example,
     send a dbus message, send an email, execute a program, and so on )
 - restore function
   - a specific function that must be executed when the profile is restored

Of course, you may leave any of those variables/functions blank if you do
not need them.


Known bugs and limitations
--------------------------

None yet.



That's it!

Have fun!
